ASSISTANT PROFESSOR FACULTY POSITION PROSTHETICS AND ASSISTIVE ROBOTICS
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering

The University of California at Davis has a tenure-track position available in the area
of Prosthetics and Assistive Robotics. The appointment is at the Assistant
Professor level. The appointment will be in Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering.
Successful candidates will be expected to fit within the Department of Mechanical &
Aerospace Engineering, in research, teaching, and department administration.
However, the research program of a successful candidate is expected to integrate
campus strengths in engineering, neurosciences, and medicine. Candidates
interested in helping lead efforts to integrate these disciplines on the UC Davis
campus, possibly as part of a new Initiative for Neuroengineering & Medicine, are
encouraged to apply. The current positions are part of a cluster of hires that will also
include associated positions in neurobiology/motor control and brain-computer
interfaces. Interdisciplinary collaborations with other departments within the College
of Engineering, School of Veterinary Medicine, School of Medicine, College of
Biological Sciences and College of Letters and Science are highly desirable and
encouraged through a strong campus Graduate Group system.

We encourage candidates from all specialties within the discipline of Prosthetics and
Assistive Robotics. Possible areas include artificial limbs, human-machine interfaces,
exoskeletons, cochlear and retinal implants, and any other devices that assist or treat
people with disability, or enhance human capabilities. Outstanding candidates in other
areas of Prosthetics and Assistive Robotics will also be considered.

UC Davis is one of few universities in the nation that houses a College of Engineering,
School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine, Neuroscience programs (including
the Neuroscience Graduate Program, the Center for Neuroscience, the Center for
Mind & Brain, and the M.I.N.D. Institute), as well as a National Primate Research
Center (one of only seven centers supported by NIH nationwide). In 2018, UC Davis
ranked 12th among public research universities nationwide and 46th among public
and private research universities according to U.S. News and World Report.
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at UC Davis is a large and thriving
department, that currently comprises 32 full-time faculty, seven core
administrative/technical staff, over 700 undergraduate students, 150 graduate
students, and numerous post-doctoral fellows, research engineers, and visiting
scholars. The department has existing strengths in micro/nano systems, controls,
design, robotics, manufacturing, biosensors, vehicles, and aerospace sciences, among
other disciplines. Additional information about the Department may be found at
http://mae.ucdavis.edu.

Davis is a pleasant, family-oriented community in a college-town setting with excellent
public schools, a mild climate, and agricultural surroundings. The town is ideally
located for many professional, cultural and recreational activities. Davis is only 15
miles from California’s capital city of Sacramento and is within easy driving distance of
the San Francisco Bay Area, the Sierra Nevada mountains, Napa and Sonoma
Valleys, and the Pacific Coast areas.

To be considered, applicants must have a Ph.D. degree or equivalent (including
M.D./Ph.D.) in any field of engineering. Also, applicants must possess an excellent
record of accomplishment in research, and demonstrated potential to obtain extramural
research support. Applicants must be able to teach and develop undergraduate and
graduate courses in engineering related to their disciplines.

Required materials include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, brief statements of research
and teaching plans, and contact information for 3 references. In addition, applicants
must submit a Statement of Contributions to Diversity that highlights past efforts to
encourage diversity
(http://academicaffairs.ucdavis.edu/diversity/equity_inclusion/index.html).

Please submit materials at https://recruit.ucdavis.edu/apply/JPF02299. Review of
applications will begin September 15, 2018 but the position will be open until filled.
Inquiries should be directed to:

Prof. Sanjay S. Joshi
Search Committee Chair, Prosthetics and Assistive Robotics
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
University of California
One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616
neuroengsearch@ucdavis.edu

UC Davis is an affirmative action/equal employment opportunity employer and is
dedicated to recruiting a diverse faculty community. UC Davis welcomes all qualified
applicants to apply, including women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with
disabilities. UC Davis is a smoke- and tobacco-free campus effective January 1, 2014.
Smoking, the use of smokeless tobacco products, and the use of unregulated nicotine
products (e-cigarettes) will be strictly prohibited on any UC Davis owned or leased
property, indoors and outdoors, including parking lots and residential space.
